---
layout: page
title: RTS Auditing
description: Security Auditing for Real-Time Systems
img: assets/img/ellipsis.png
importance: 2
category:
related_publications: true
publications: bansal2022towards, bansal2022ellipsis, bansal2023system
selected: true
---

<div style="text-align: justify;">

<p>
System auditing is a powerful tool that provides insight into
the nature of suspicious events in computing systems, allowing the machine
operators to detect and subsequently investigate security incidents. While
auditing has proven invaluable to the security of traditional computers,
existing audit frameworks are rarely designed with consideration for
Real-Time Systems (RTS). The transparency provided by system auditing
would be of tremendous benefit in a variety of security-critical RTS
domains, (e.g., autonomous vehicles); however, if audit mechanisms are
not carefully integrated into RTS, auditing can be rendered ineffectual
and violate the real-world temporal requirements of the RTS.
</p>

<p>
This work demonstrates how commodity audit frameworks can be adapted
to RTS, using Linux Audit as a case study.
The volume of audit events generated by commodity frameworks is 
unsustainable within the temporal and resource constraints of real-time
(RT) applications. 
Ellipsis, a set of kernel-based
reduction techniques that leverage the periodic repetitive nature of
RT applications, aggressively reduces the costs of system-level auditing.

Ellipsis generates succinct descriptions of RT applications' expected activity
while retaining a detailed record of unexpected activities, enabling
analysis of suspicious activity while meeting temporal constraints. Our
evaluation of Ellipsis, using ArduPilot (an open-source autopilot application
suite) demonstrates up to 93% reduction in audit log generation.
</p>

</div>

<br>